(whistling upbeat music)
Welcome back.
In this video we're gonna be talking about Flexbox ordering.
Which is a way to actually move
the order of your DOM elements
without actually moving them in your DOM,
which is kind of cool.
So I wanted to start just from scratch,
so we make sure that we're still comfortable
setting up Flexbox from scratch.
So if we look back again, make sure that
I've got this container which is our Flex-container.
And then I've got a whole bunch of boxes inside of it,
which are called our Flex-items.
So the way that we do that is we select the container.
Let's go ahead and say .container, display flex.
Give it a save.
Now when I refresh, you'll notice
that all the items are just smooshed together.
Then we'll go ahead and select each box.
Each box has a class of box on it.
And I'm just going to say Flex one,
and we haven't done that just yet, that's in a future video,
but essentially what that will do is, it will just evenly,
it'll take all the width that we have here.
And it will evenly distribute it amongst each other.
We're gonna learn a lot more about this flex property
and all the different arguments that we can give it.
But for now,
just know that the flex one distributes equally.
Why am I doing that?
Just so that this demo looks pretty nice.
Without it, it kind of like gets squished together.
And I don't want to have to get into anymore
width tricks than I have to.
I want to keep these demos as simple as possible.
So, we got flex one on there.
But let's go ahead and talk about the order properties.
So the order property, if you go ahead and select box three
it's just order.
So for whatever reason it's not flex order,
like everything else we've done so far is flex-something.
It's simply just order.
And order will take a number,
there's no pixels or anything like that.
And if you give it an order let's say,
if I give it just five, give it a save, and refresh.
You'll notice that we took box three,
which is this purple one,
and it's moved all the way on to the end.
So what did we learn from that?
Well, if we give it an order of five.
First of all, what is one through four?
And let's take a look.
What if we just do order one, and then refresh?
Nothing actually happens, so that's interesting.
The default order
for everything where it is not set is zero.
So by default everything is set to order zero.
And you'll see that it's one, two, three,
three just gets set in there.
So when you go ahead and set anything to anything greater
than zero, like one,
it will then go ahead and put it on the end.
So it's zero, zero, zero, all the way to the end,
these are all zero, and one starts there.
So similarly, if we go to box seven.
Say order two,
it's going give us all of these,
one through ten.
These boxes right here.
And then we've got three and seven in the order there.
So if you really wanted to,
if this is kind of throwing you off
you could just say everything is order one.
Now everything goes on ahead.
And box three you could say, order three.
Now we've got everything is one.
Then box three, which is the purple one is three.
And seven is two so they go in that order.
So that's really helpful if you're,
especially working on like a responsive design,
a lot of times,
I'll get website designs from designers and they'll say,
This is great and then when it gets to mobile
let's just totally change how everything looks.
And you say well I can't really do that
because they way the html is written
is kind of the order that it shows up.
We've got a few tricks you can do positioning
or floating things left and right.
But if you want to totally change the order,
like if you want to take this number three,
and just take it all the way out,
and maybe put it in the footer of a website.
Then you don't really have an option until now
that we have Flexbox.
And that's when you could use order.
What happens if we make something negative?
Negative let's try box three, order negative one.
Give it a save.
What you'll see is it also does work negatively.
I make box seven negative two,
it's going to negative two, negative one.
The rest of them are one because I put it here.
Or I take this off the rest of them are zero.
So it worked kind of like Z index, there's no units,
it just kind of figures out what order every things is in.
And we'll set them in.
The really one caveat that we have here
if I just make this order one.
Is that if I try and use my selector here.
So I'm just selecting one, selecting two,
and then I'm gonna try to select four.
Look what happens, right.
I hover over four, and then one, two, and then three
is selected with my thing.
If I keep going a little bit further
it's gonna select four.
Let's get one more out of there.
So box five order two,
that should put it right at the end there.
So one, two, three is now selected.
One, two, three, four, five, so like if you trying to
actually copy some text off of it.
Like let's say I wanted to copy one, four, two, and one.
And then I went into here and pasted it.
I actually get one, two, three, and four.
So it's not to be used for things where you need
people to copy text.
Because that's gonna make them really frustrated.
But generally, that's not what you're doing.
You're not like ordering paragraph tags.
You probably have like a layout item where there might be
header, footer, about, contact, products.
Where you're just kind of
changing the order at which they come in.
So, that's order.
We will see you in the next video
where we're gonna talk about alignment.
I think that's what a lot of people are here to learn.
Where you've got all these boxes,
how do you have a little bit of fine grade control over
aligning and centering
and justifying content of all the items?
So see you in the next video!
(upbeat whistle music)